# **Pypasswd Generator V2** 
The highly secure and reliable credential generation & classification pipeline.  
**Pypasswd Generator** is a containerised password generation and classificiation pipeline made for mass generation of unique and highly secure password combinations using a **Multi Step Valitadion Engine** made with Rust. It features real world breach detection using HIBP database. Pypasswd is intended for data analysis and large scale enterprise onboarding as it is capable of generating and validating upwards 2-3 million password combinations at once, even more if you're fine with waiting a significant amount of time for the breach test.

**Pypasswd generator** is still in development as of June 2026, Docker Images for V1 have been released, Check them out!
Check out the **Development Progress** section to see the current progress or check out the official **bypasswd toolchain** project.

## **What does Pypasswd Generator do?**  
**Pypasswd generator** automatically generates a dataset highly secure and unbreached password canditates using pesudo-random string generation and a multi step validation engine. It automatically detects common patterns , breached passwords , common dictionary words and basic password formation to output a password which is highly resistant to automated attacks like Brute-Forcing and Logical building.

**Pypasswd generator** uses a simple punishment system to evaluate the score of each test and get a highly accurate evaluation of the password combination being tested. It actively punishes canditates like `its_my_passWOrd_&63_12` 0r `%%2@#PAAS_WOrD_9878_0973_3$^5` , these passwords may look like strong canditates and they are for most uses cases but the passwords generated by **Pypasswd Generator** are even better and surpass these canditates easily ensuring security and maximum resistance from brute force attacks.

For Example : A canditate which is accepted at this stage of development by **Pypasswd Generator** is `#p9&46;7qW1!3nN/0{9=1Pb@Wq;7*gC`  
Now obviously this password is not made to be remembered by a human, but that is intentional as *Pypasswd Generator* is made to function as a backend for password manager and password recommendation utilities in a small to mdeium scale.

### Fun mathematical approximation 
This approximation is very exoperimental but it holds true for this specific canditate.

Let's be incredibly generous and imagine a government entity builds a classified, highly optimized supercomputing cluster specifically for password cracking that is  1 million times faster than a top-tier consumer rig.  It can process 220 quadrillion combinations per second

Time =  1.93×10<sup>63</sup> / 2.2×10<sup>17</sup>  ​≈ 8.77×10<sup>45</sup> seconds  
Time to crack : <strong>Roughly 27×10<sup>38</sup> years.</strong>

# **Pypasswd Validation Engine**  
*The Validation Engine* is a major component of **Pypasswd Generator** and it is crucial for ensuring that generated passwords are secure and brute force resistant.   
**The Overview of the validation process**  

- CSPRNG Input Formation
- Preliminary Tests
- Pattern Matching 
- Breach Detection
- Theoritical Brute Force Resistance Approximation
- Output Generation & Cleaning

**CSPRNG Input Formation** : Generates a Cryptographically Secure Random Number. 

**Preliminary Tests** : Classify on Length & Character Set (Digits,Upper case < Lower case,Symbols).  

**Pattern Matching** : Filter combinations on strict parsing rules and detect common patterns.  

**Breach Detection** : Look for exact matches and similar matches in public breached password databases. To ensure that generated output isn't just availabe on some database.  

**Theoritical Brute Force Resistance Approximation** : Approximate brute force resistance based on test data and filter stronger passwords from the weaker ones.  

# **Development Progress**
June-July 2026, Pypasswd Generator V2 is in progress. The project was off-track because I decided to pull the redundant *Rupasswd Generator* repo and rewrite the crictcal parts for Pypassswd Generator in high performance rust code. The output has also been changed from spreadsheets and csv to a local SQL Database primarily.
Now, the output generate is instantly usable and does not require further string/file processing, You can just use SQL to process the data as you like.
I will release the final schema of the database and some example passwords with clear documenation if you ever want to use Pypasswd Generator or Integrate it.
If you have any other questiosn , don't hesitate to hit me up on Linkedin or drop an issue here.

# **Pypasswd V1 from Anywhere**

**Pypasswd Generator V1** is primarily available as a docker image so if you want to use it on your linux distro from anywhere , These commands given should be used for testing or small uses, for large scale integration it is recommended to pull the correct package. Look below in the **Downloads** section. 

### **Linux**  
`docker run --rm -t -e PYTHONBUFFERED=1 -v "$(pwd)":/app/output ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generator:latest`
 
### **Windows PowerShell**  
`docker run --rm -t -e PYTHONBUFFERED=1 -v "${PWD}":/app/output ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generator:latest`

### **Windows Command Prompt**

`docker run --rm -t -e PYTHONBUFFERED=1 -v "%cd%":/app/output ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generator:latest`

### **WSL & Git Bash**  
`docker run --rm -t -e PYTHONBUFFERED=1 -v "/$(pwd)":/app/output ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generator:latest`

## **Download Pypasswd Generator V1**
You can download **Pypasswd Generator** directly from GitHub or use the command given below for downloading the docker image instantly.

`docker pull ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generatorlatest`

*NOTE : Both methods require Docker to be installed, If youre running the script from source , please look at requirements.txt for resolving any dependency errors, However I recommend using Docker for maximum compatibility*

# **How to use Pypasswd Generator V1**
Startup arguments are necessary to specify length of password , maximum tries for password candidate generation and to enable or disable verbose outputs.

- **--length**  : Specify length , takes a numeric value between 0 - 128
- **--bulk**    : Specify total iterations , takes a numeric value between 0 - x
- **--verbose** : Enable/Disable verbose outputs, use True/False

Example :  
`docker run --rm -t -e PYTHONBUFFERED=1 -v "$(pwd)":/app/output ghcr.io/baibhavpenguin/pypasswd-generator:latest --length 20 --bulk 2000 --verbose True`

# **Licencing & Rights**  
*Pypasswd Generator **Copyright 2026 Baibhav Bhattacharya***   
*Pypasswd Generator* is licensed under the <a href="LICENSE">Apache 2.0 License</a>  
It is completely free and open source for anyone to use and modify.

## **Credits**
*Pypasswd Generator* is completely built by **Baibhav Bhattacharya**  
<a href="https://github.com/BaibhavPenguin/">BaibhavPenguin</a> on GitHub.